welcome to the International Space
Station I am Iza astronaut Alexander
Gerst today we're going to talk about
Rosetta pieces comet chasing spacecraft
and some of the unique challenges it
faces the Rosetta spacecraft began his
journey in March 2004 launched by an
Ariane 5 g plus record from your
spaceport room
Rosetta to set off on a 10-year journey
rendezvous with comet 67p or Shirley
wolf Gerasimenko 2014 rosette aims to
unlock important clues about the history
of the solar system and whether comments
helped to see earth with water and
perhaps even with the ingredients for
life reaches target comet Rosetta has
performed a number of gravity assist
maneuvers close flybys of the Earth and
Mars to slingshot the spacecraft on the
right trajectory deep into space on its
way Rosetta passed close to asteroids
28.67 Steen's and 21 Lutetia
taking detailed images of these tiny
worlds in July 2011 Rosetta entered into
deep space hibernation which ended when
its internal alarm clock went off On
January 2014 after waking the 11
scientific instruments on Rosetta and
10:00 on the small Lander called feel it
returned on and checked then began the
most difficult phase of the mission
rendezvous with the comet
as it closed in on the comment a major
breaking manoeuvre was performed to
bring Rosetta alongside around the
nucleus at walking pace becoming the
first spacecraft ever to do so since
then Rosetta has been mapping the
nucleus in detail in order to select the
landing site for fueling this will be
the first time that landing on a comet
has ever been attempted comet 67p or
Julian wolf
Gerasimenko is a tiny world it's nucleus
of ice rock and dust it's just four
kilometers across it's low mass means
that it has a weak reputational field
making landing on the surface very
challenging feel a we'll have to use ice
screws and harpoons to prevent it from
rebounding back into space after
touchdown a successful landing will
depend on what kind of surface feel a
lands on whether it consists of dust or
even ice in this demonstration we are
going to focus on the deployment of
feeling on to the comment the
microgravity environment of the space
station makes it an ideal place to try
out this experiment all the same for
this to work we are going to need to use
a little imagination we're going to use
an unpowered sphere satellite to
represent the nucleus of the comet which
in reality is a dirty snowball
approximately four kilometres across
on our model the area of the velcro
represents the selected landing site
Rosetta's small Lander fillet weighs 100
kilograms and is about size of a small
fridge Fila will take close-up images of
the surface and the panorama of its
surrounding area in its onboard
laboratory the lander will investigate
what materials make up the comet this
includes drilling into it to get samples
from below the surface
you
an earplug will represent feel a this is
not to scale but it is smaller and has
significantly less mass than a scare we
are using velcro to simulate fool ants
our food and ice screws and this has
been attached to the airplane for our
model of feel aid to successfully land
in the comment it needs to touch down on
the chosen site the other half of the
dr. on the sphere to see how challenging
it will be for feely to touch down on
the comet let's have a go at the
experiment I'm going to throw freely
slowly towards the comet to this first
demonstration we have the easiest
possible Center the comet is not
rotating or moving a relative to me
therefore the landing side is always
visible of course in reality it's more
complicated than that from previous
observations we know that comets rotate
so now we're going to try to dock fuel a
onto the comet again this time our comet
is going to be rotating
now let's add even more complexity for
the last demonstration as Rosetta will
be moving around the comet it means that
the nucleus of the comet will also be
moving or translating relative to the
spacecraft therefore this time the comet
is rotating and translating
these were tough experiments when
landing on the nucleus of a real comet
there are many challenges that need to
be addressed due to the low
gravitational pull and the threat of
rebounding off the surface as well as
the complex relative motion of the comet
in the spacecraft
Fila is expected to last on the surface
of the comet for at least a few days but
this is not the end of the Rosetta
mission the spacecraft will continue to
fly alongside the comment as it heads
towards the inner solar system you'll
make a tale observations as the icy
nucleus heats up as it approaches the
Sun ok so today we saw how difficult it
actually is to have a lander dock to a
comment and I had a pretty low success
rate here I'm pretty sure of Rosetta can
do much better than I and it's going to
be a suspense time challenge ahead I'm
looking forward to that landing and I
wish Rosetta all the best from the
International Space Station
you
you can follow the events of Rosetta and
filets thrilling commentary adventure as
they unfold on Facebook and Twitter